>> James Halliday: So head and
tail are pretty handy.
There's also one that's
a calendar on the command line.
I use this all the time as well, cuz I'm
pretty much always in the command line,
and if you just want to see a really
simple calendar, here you go.
So we see that it's May 2,
2017, and happily,
the 2 is printed with reverse video.
So it comes up with a black background,
in this case.
>> Speaker 2: Is there a way
of changing that when you're
doing dark mode because
the black background is black?
>> James Halliday: It's reverse video.
So that means that if you have a black
background it should show up as white, and
if you have a white background
it should show up as black.
>> Speaker 2: I think there's
something with Mac again.
>> James Halliday: Macs, you're weird.
I don't know anything about Macs.
I can't help you there.
>> Speaker 2: Noted.
>> James Halliday: [LAUGH] But also,
you can do things like if you want
to see all of 2017, there we are.
Whole calendar to play with.
You can pipe that into head -n5, and
the first five lines of the output of
the calendar command, it's kind of handy.
You can also do things like,
if you wanna see October,
>> James Halliday: I
guess you have to say oct 2017.
You have to give it the year as well,
but there we go.
Also another handy thing is cal -3,
will print out the previous month,
current month, and the next month.
That's the one that I use all the time,
it's super handy.
>> James Halliday: Just a fun thing.
There's also the date command.
If you type date, it will print
out the current time and date, and
the date command is really fun, cuz it
has these things called format strings.
This goes out to a system call.
If you remember from at the beginning,
we were talking about how the kernel
works to get different date parameters,
and there's something in POSIX
that's called STRF time, and
STRF time specifies this little language
for doing things like formatting dates.
So if we want just the hours and
minutes we can do %H is hours,
and %M is minutes, it's 13:13 I guess.
That should be 13:14 by now.
No, it's still 13:13.
So we can do %H:%M:%S and
every one of those percents
is replaced by hours,
minutes, seconds, in this case.
There's also one for the year,
the full year, 2017.
There's also one for the month,
which is the lowercase m,
and the day is d, and there's
a shortcut for a few of these things
like the year, month,
date format like this with dashes.
There's a shortcut called %F that gives
you that, and there's a shortcut for
the other part which is %,
I actually forget what it's called.
So, we can look at the mandate, and
if you scroll down a couple of pages,
there's whole section about
what all of this presents mean.
So, if we see the part with the hours,
minutes,
seconds, there should be something like,
here we go, %X, I think, and %T.
Right, so
I think %T is a little bit nicer than %X.
I don't really care what the locale is,
I want it to always look like that.
Date is sometimes really handy if you
wanna do something with this format
strings.
If you wanna do something like
automatically generate a log file that
has the date in it, it's very useful for
that, because you can do things like,
I'll show in a bit how to use
back ticks to use these commands to kind
of like create file names in place and
that kind of stuff, but
we have something like %F, we could do
something like echo `.txt, and
that bit inside the backticks
is substituted for that file.
So you can do something
like echo hello there
appends to a log file that has a name
that's based on the current date.
So there'll be a new log file every day.